And with that, those are kind of like
some of the high level strategies.
I will take just one or
two more minutes to talk about
some patterns because I promised.
So some of the patterns I think are good.
Like I said, Prefer Dependency Injection.
Now, the default arguments
exists in JavaScript,
let's say hypothetically
your function calls fetch.
And I do this actually,
the fetch one is interesting,
because I accidentally discovered
why I should do this in fetch.
Is that the fetch that exists in
the browser and the fetch exists and
most server side rendered frameworks
are different fetches, right?
Window.fetch does not exist in node 18,
whatever here was,
fetch did not exist in node, right?
So I'd have to do something like yo,
if we're in the browser, and
it's available, yeah, fetch.
Otherwise, if we're on
the server side rendered piece,
I will pass you in a fetch, right?
And I accidentally discovered this
is a really powerful pattern.
Cuz now it's not like,
fetch was available.
For any of the things that might
otherwise just be imported and
then just somewhere deep in
the closure scope of my function.
I will have the last argument will be
just like a whole bunch of fetch or
maybe anything else that I would
normally just import and include.
I will still import them, and
there will be the default argument, but
there's the ability to pass in
a different functionality if you want.
First, that was originally for
server-side rendering.
Then I found out that was great for
testing.
Then I found out, I need that function but
it made some assumptions.
But I've already made the API
flexible because I can pass in some
other string formatter here instead of
whatever I initially intended, right?
As the callback function, and I can
reuse this someplace else and get all of
the goodness for free without having to
copy and paste or rework the function.
So anywhere where it's the thing that
think might want to be pluggable.
Even if it's a default argument and you
almost always use the default argument,
give yourself the ability to pass in
a different functionality in there, right?
If it's something that's
traversing a tree object, right?
I had one they use that it was
just a breadth-first search and
depth-first search.
And it was effectively a cheap
version of the ES1 thing we looked at,
because I needed it for something.
But then I instead of like traversing
the thing and calling a function,
I did that but
I had you could pass in a function, right?
All of a sudden,
what do you know six months later
I need to do something similar.
Use the same thing, I fixed a bug and
one I fixed two bugs.
Some of this is used to testifying debugs
using these tools to analyze your code,
find all the bugs.
But then having the ability that
everything kinda passes through as few
places as possible, and you've made them
super flexible, is incredibly powerful for
making large scale changes.
And then you have the infrastructure
to know everything works and
you don't have to change like six
test files cuz that tree traversal
one that does a thing is different than
that one, walk the tree, whatever.
But thinking about how many
options that you might need and
making them default arguments you'd have
to pass a thousand things every time.
But if you do need to
override one of those things,
giving yourself the ability early on.
So this is what that might look like.
This is not doing it, right?
Important things,
use them in that closure scope.
You want to use a different hook for
grabbing something cuz
especially with UI components.
So it was an accordion list, and
it was fetching directly from the API.
Pass in thing you should fetch from,
even if it's like passing a URL that
you think is never gonna change, right?
Let it be the default argument,
life goes on, it doesn't really matter.
But then later if you wanted to,
it has default arguments, right?
When I use it, I'm not calling it with
any arguments because by default,
those are the defaults.
If I need to override one, and using an
object here is usually a lot better, but
it's hard to fake that.
Cuz then you don't have to be in any
particular order cuz if you need to fake
the fourth thing, then you have
to do like undefined, undefined,
undefined thing versus an object and
the spread operator.
All this stuff was harder
before modern JavaScript.
But then just giving yourself the ability
to pass stuff in, make everything a prop
with default arguments that you think
you might need to swap out later, and
then you just can, right?
Even if you're gonna keep open and
close as state, right?
You could pass into like, what the initial
like what you're gonna pass that you state
hook as the initial argument is.
And then all of a sudden,
one day the designer is like,
I want this particular one
to be opened by default.
Cool, you already gave yourself
the ability to pass in as a prop, right?
And then I said before when
we saw what the [INAUDIBLE],
these are all things
I've said various places.
Which is like having,
hooks are great cuz they're wonderful,
and I talk a lot of smack
about hooks because it's fun.
But I've written,
do you know how many years it took me with
that Redux to map dispatch to props and
map states probably before I
actually knew what that was doing?
Right, it's all that stuff is squirrelly,
but
this idea that you would have just
the view layer component that doesn't have
any state management whatsoever and
gets everything in props.
And a component above it that does
all the hooks and prompts and
passes it in means that you can grab that
other one totally separate provider, and
your test pass stuff in it.
And again, of the sudden you find out
that you need roughly the same UI for
something, completely different,
with different state,
you just hug in a different
state management container.
And then by default you export that one,
that's everything.
So as you use this component, you just use
it like you've jammed everything together.
But you can export that other
ones if you just needed the view,
you can easily pull it out.
The ability is how much is your
stuff glued together versus, yeah,
pretend it's glued together,
but it's more snapped in there.
And then you can kind of pull that
stuff out and be really happy and
stuff along those lines.
And so there are some patterns that
kind of once you have some of the rules,
once you've got the framework that you can
begin to do so you can change your mind.
Cuz like most of the tech that I've
accrued is not because I'm bad at this
also because I'm bad at this.
But most of the tech that I've recruited
is like the ask or the assumptions and
what we thought we knew about the world
at the time were totally true and
there were good choices.
There was this book Thinking In Bets,
which is like, you can make a good choice
that has a bad outcome,
a good choice it has a good outcome.
A bad choice it still has
a good outcome because luck, or
bad choice has a bad outcome,
like a lot of the tech debt that we
have in our code bases is
good choices at the time.
Whoever made that choice in 2017, with the
information they had, made a good choice.
In 2023, everyone hates that
part of the code base, right?
And so it's about how much ability to
pull stuff apart, swap stuff out, and
giving yourself that framework.
And then if you don't have it,
you inherit a code base.
Smother in an automated playwright tests
with some screenshots that catch the div
and start fixing it and pull it apart.
But these patterns I've now for some
of these that we've talked about today.
It's one of the things if you have like
one, like either code base that you've
either built from scratch
with some of these patterns.
And there's one more
that we'll talk about.
Or refactor things, you do it once
you don't know if you're lucky.
Or like this is a pattern that works.
You do it two or three times, and
there might be other patterns,
these are the ones that have worked for
me, right?
The last one and we talked about
this is it is very tempting
to use a use effect or
what have you in your component.
And then massage the data in
our view layer component,
all over your code base everywhere and
format stuff.
And then all of a sudden the backend
engineer changes an API or
we choose to change an API and
you've gotta chase down all of those.
One of the things I usually do with,
we saw request for API.
I'll also have whatever the nouns in my
thing are is like if it was a two list,
I would have a function called get all to
dues and get to do the takes a argument.
Maybe that calls requests from API under
the hood, and then it calls fetch.
But it gives me if all the times
I'm fetching a thing or
going through the same function.
And it's always the same bug by the way.
It's some back end engineer because
it's go it's going, let's go Lang.
They do something, and instead of
an empty array when there's nothing,
it's now undefined or null.
And then I was calling map on it all
throughout my code base on all these
different views.
Now, I got to chase down all of them,
I learned the hard way.
No, no, we format the data in one
place right after we get the API.
And when they change it, empty your right
into a null, I fix it in one place and
everyone gets it for free.
And just kinda like building up these
abstractions of how little change for
changes outside of your control
can you deal with, right?
And then we've got the test,
we've got the build processes,
we've got all the stuff
that supports that.
But it's about one, you can't do that
until you have those processes in place.
And then once you have those processes in
place, these things will make sure that it
will kinda keep you honest and
keep you working on everything.
And that that is my spiel.
Thank you.
>> [APPLAUSE]